ali albanima is the director of
electronic intifada good to have you
with us on al jazeera how fragile do you
think this truce is
well how many times have i sat in this
chair having this same discussion with
you
uh or one of your colleagues this keeps
happening
uh
palestinians in gaza obviously relieved
that the bombs have stopped
but 44 people are dead including 15
children hundreds injured and people in
gaza don't get to go back to anything
like normal because they're still living
under israel's siege that is a form of
silent violence uh against every man
woman and child in gaza 24 hours a day
365 days a year for 15 years so
unfortunately it is fragile this is
going to happen again i can't tell you
if it's going to be in a day a week a
month or a year but it's going to keep
happening
because israel enjoys total impunity
for its crimes against the palestinian
people and not just impunity but full
and active support
remember it was bombing gaza with
weapons provided by the united states by
the european union by canada who all
stood by israel and these are the same
countries that are sending billions of
dollars of weapons to ukraine supposedly
to resist occupation and invasion but
here they are helping israel perpetrate
occupation invasion and terror against
the civilian population so sadly it is
fragile and it is going to happen again
until that changes
one of the things that uh
perhaps was was different to to some of
the cases that we've seen in the past
was that this time around the israeli
authorities were saying that they
perceived there was a potential threat
as opposed to actually giving evidence
of an actual threat before it carried
out to the the bombing attacks which
this time round were aimed at targets
within civilian areas we saw the
civilian casualties is there a
suggestion that israel given the fact
you were talking about
immunity or impunity there do you think
that israel is changing the goalposts
very slightly and this could lead to
attacks which are knocked back out
backed up by any evidence of any
perceived threat but can be just done by
israel at any given moment
when has israel ever provided evidence
for these so-called threats when israel
in may 2021
bombed the al jazeera offices bombed the
associated press offices was there any
legitimate threat did israel provide any
evidence of a threat it never does and
it never has to because it enjoys the
full support of the so-called
international community the same people
who lecture us day and night about
human rights and the rules-based
international order so there's nothing
new here israel kills it murders it
bombs it destroys uh with uh on the on
the flimsiest of pretexts and with no
pretext remember that israeli leaders
routinely call these regular massacres
of palestinians uh mowing the lawn the
idea being that the natives and remember
that palestinians and gaza the vast
majority are refugees ethnically
cleansed from their lands in what is now
so-called israel
that in order to give the message to the
idea to the natives that you know
there's no point resisting you have to
mow the lawn periodically you have to
massacre them uh kill a bunch of them so
they get the message that they should
just surrender and accept their fate
this is the logic of israel this is the
logic of zionism frankly and it's fully
supported by the united states the
european union canada and sadly
now you know it pains me to say
a number of arab regimes that have fully
normalized their ties with this frankly
murderous regime i want to ask you about
the influence and the role of hamas in
this
there was a lot of speculation about
what at what point hamas could or would
choose to get involved
in this conflict which may have taken it
to yet another level but hamas of course
which runs gaza has been trying to
rebuild gaza since the attacks you were
talking about last year if it appears to
remain reluctant to get involved do you
think that that will send a message to
israel
with regard to the nature of the attacks
and the number of attacks that it can
carry out
i think that's the israeli spin the
israeli spin is that oh you know hamas
didn't get involved because they were
you know too scared or they didn't want
to suffer what israel would do to gaza
nobody in gaza wants to be bombed by
israel nobody wants a war israel
launched this war not palestinians and
that's always the case i think the
calculation
by hamas and by islamic jihad was
uh to respond
to israel's attack to its uh unprovoked
attack on gaza uh and to
to escalate if necessary i think uh you
know it would have been untenable for
hamas to stay out of the war if islamic
jihad had not succeeded in in
getting israel into a position where it
would agree to a ceasefire
so i think hamas would have joined
the the battle if it had to but nobody
you know palestinians are not itching
for with israel it is israel who imposes
on palestinians the uh the the need to
resist and i think hamas would have had
to i think the popular demand for hamas
to
defend palestinians would have been
irresistible had this continued even for
another day
as always really interesting to get your
views on this ali abhinav and thank you
very much indeed for your time sir
thank you so much
you